# Unessay Discussion

1. Discussion of model unessays
    + Isabella, *Buffy* comic-essay
    + Coco, rice writing
    + Sophia, altered book
    + Quill, typography dance
    + Tina, Chrome extension
    + Hannah, magazine essay
    + Kimberly, card game
    + Ramin, brain model
2. Ideas about new unessays?
3. Logistics (me away when they're turned in)

# Opening Prompt for *Station Eleven*

Choose one of the following passages from *Station Eleven*. Reflect on its themes in relationships to another specific section from the first sections of the book (up to page 115). 

1\. Really, all of the very short chapter 6, but specifically:  

> No more Internet. No more social media, no more scrolling through litanies of dreams and nervous hopes and photographs of lunches, cries for help and expressions of contentment and relationship-status updates with heart icons whole or broken, plans to meet up later, please, complaints, desires, pictures of babies dressed as bears or peppers for Halloween. No more reading and commenting on the lives of others, and in so doing, feeling slightly less alone in the room. No more avatars.

2\. From page 115:

> Some towns, as I was saying, some towns are like this one, where they want to talk about what happened, about the past. Other towns, discussion of the past is discouraged. We went to a place once where the children didn't know the world had ever been different, although you'd think all the rusted-out automobiles and telephone wires would give them a clue. Some towns are easier to visit than others. Some places have elected mayors or they're run by elected committees. Sometimes a cult takes over, and those towns are the most dangerous.

3\. From page 105:

> In the next image, Dr. Eleven holds the note in his hand as he stands on the outcropping of rock, the little dog by his boots. His thoughts:
> The first sentence of the assassin's note rang true: we were not meant for this world. I returned to my city, to my shattered life and damaged home, to my loneliness, and tried to forget the sweetness of life on Earth.
> To long, also melodramatic. She erases it, and writes in soft pencil: *I stood looking over my damaged home and tried to forget the sweetness of life on Earth.*


# Discussion

Themes

1. human decency (7, 48, 
2. lost world (20, 31-32, 35, 39, 89-90
3. narrative position (30
4. new world (37, 48, 58, {65}, 85, {108}, 
5. history/preservation 42, {57-58}, 95, 98, {115}
6. art (35, 83, 86, 95, {105}, 