---
layout: page   
title: "Field Book 5"  
author: "Olivia Eckerson"  
categories:  
    - fieldbooks
comments: false  
show_meta: true

---
## How does your experience of these stages of textual production change your understanding of the texts created during the hand press period? 

During the hand press period, type was reset each time a press was used, which is unfathomable considering how many steps it included and how long it took to complete. Since I learned about the stages of textual production, I have a new found appreciation for text and its origins. I was shocked by the tedious process of sifting through individual letters to create words, sentences, and paragraphs. Simply put, *a lot* of effort was put into constructing any form of text: books, indulgences, pamphlets, you name it. I also learned how the press influenced language and culture. It seems obvious but I never considered that most language was oral before the press was invented since most people couldn't read or write. When words were finally written down, it became a form of  identity and nationalism. 

This was the beginning of a new *modern* era because great change was about to take place. According to the [Oxford English Dictionary's] (http://public.oed.com/aspects-of-english/english-in-time/the-first-dictionaries-of-english/) record, the number of words "available" doubled between 1500 and 1650. Along side the development and availability of books and other printed texts were grammar schools. Education was afoot, and a standard form of language was beginning to be established. Today, grammar and spelling are ingrained in our education so it's impossible to think about a time when that was just starting to be developed. 

Lastly, I want to reference Sarah Werner’s “Finding Women in the Printing Shop” because she notes how the history, in terms of the people involved in the production of a book, are easily overlooked. There are many people responsible for difference stages of the hand press. Werner, in particular, notes women's achievements in relation to the press. 

Also, I never considered the hard labor that was involved, which Melville's short story highlights: "...twelve hours to the day, day after day, through the three hundred and sixty-five days, excepting Sundays, Thanksgiving, and Fast-days. That’s our rule." Of course, in my own education, I learned about the rise of industrialization and factory workers, which occurred two centuries later. But printing press workers are never mentioned. I learned from our class that this labor included typesetting which done by hand, letter by letter, to set the type. This was done by choosing letters from an open compartment with individual compartments for each letter. It was extra confusing because the type had to be set up backwards on the stick. 

## What relationships can you trace between the laborers and the cultural, political, philosophical, and artistic artifacts they helped produce? 

Gutenberg originally printed indulgences which were receipts for a payment to the church. By paying the money, it saved people from going to purgatory—it saved their souls. It was also a common way for churches to raise money. The relationship between this artifact, in particular, and the laborers is how they sustained life (and funds) to churches. In a way, they are the unsung heroes (from the churches p.o.v.) because they mass produced forms that commoners could easily fill out. Furthermore, the laborers enabled society to communite faster and more easily. Whether it was news, books, or another text, the laborers hurried the passing of information from one person to another. 

During this time, text overload grew and grew. There were more books that existed than a person could read during their lifetime, according to the Blair reading. This was the sign of a shift to a new medium. While this new medium allowed more information, it also allowed new misinformation—the original, fake news. Papermakers, compositors, printers’ devils, and press operators were the hands that began the transfer of mass information. Furthermore, this lead to more literacy and the production of books for pleasure. The contemporary era brought a new age of Enlightenment which increased the number of books being produced by the printing press. Book prices dropped with the invention of the:

1. steam printing press
2. steam paper mills
3. typewriters

## How does thinking about the print shop help us think about texts?

A new industry rose with the rise of print shops. New jobs appeared with the book industry that ranged from writing to producing to selling. It was an entirely new market that was a factor in industrialization during the 1800s.

- Booksellers
- Publishers
- Fiction and nonfiction writers
- Print laborers: master printer, apprentices, compositors, papermakers, and print operators 

The world of craft printing had its own culture, history, and traditions that derived from the monks who transferred ink to parchment. The printing culture was so important that many of its quirks are still found in 21st century phrases like: "Mind your ps and qs", being "on the stick" to get something done, "upper and lower case", and being "out of sorts". 

For the first time, those who were literate had the opportunity to choose books to read. It was a monumental way to fill leisure time, especially those from the upper class with more time to kill. Book shops were a symbol of potential knowledge because people had access to all types of books.

 

